13 Satur Ther @ 5.73 Father Marie Joseph died 1898 Augs Bismark died on 30 July Light n.w. & very cool morning ~ Our steersman came down with an empty Sefinah having hired it for 59 Beshlics to discharge us, Capt Cowley also, hired a small meheyleh lying here for 80 Beshlics to discharge us
 The S.S. Ressafah is still heaving over the shoal, & the S.S. Comet is lying below her doing nothing
 we are discharging cargo in the two Boats
 The Ressafah Cannot get over the shoal the place is getting worse there is only 2 draaz
 The Comet steamed up along the East bank & came abreast of us, but she can't get over a long ridge where there is 2 draaz also, Capt Cowley wrote an Official letter to Lynch in Baghdad proposing to transfer cargo and passengers to the Khalifah & let us return as it is doubtful that we can pass, our lighters are even grounding and cannot take our Cargo down to the opposite bank the Arab from the Beni Ajil started at 1 1/2 P.M. I sent a letter to Johny my nephew
 The S.S. Khalifah is aground they say at Jwemisseh
 Weather became calm
 & warm, breeze variable from South S. Est & N. Est~ The Comet steamed on to the Shoal & grounded just abrest of us. At 3,, P.M. the Khalifah arrived up & anchored up above us along the East bank & sent to sound ~ At 3 1/2 P.M. my messenger Alewy arrived from Baghdad, he was ferried across in our Launch
 Eliza writes to me that the arab arrived last night at 7 P.M. & she soon wrote to me the answer but the arab left this morning after sunrise, she sends me a letter from Alexander a short one from Vienna dated the 22d July, he does not say anything about his mariage affair only he complains of a very bad tooth ache he has which prevents him from writing He has received my 90 £ Stg from R. Jorkis & that is all he says, How could his telegram from Paris be also dated the 22 July this is puzzling me, I also received a letter from Blance, my late brother Alexander's widow from Constaninople dated the 19 July
 I sent them all to Henry to read, he writes to me that they have 320 passengers
 Jeboory Asfar is on board going for a few days to spend with his family
 My wife writes to me & that Père Marie Joseph the Superior of the Carmelite Father died yesterday @ 12 o'clock am. He was ill for some time & had spent about 3 months out in his garden, but it is all his fault because he never used to take any nourishment & starved himself, it is a great loss to all the Christian community he was the Boss of the Fathers & the oldest father that has ever remained so long in Baghdad for over 35 years and during this period he had done lots of good for our church & schools. Henry also tells me that Prince Bismark the Ex. German Chancellor died at Berlin on the 30 of July
 Henry writes to me that Jeboory Asfar is going to ride in tomorrow early The Comet kept working and heaving over the shoal at night
 